Publication Process and Writing Research Papers

Publications are important. Cannot survive in academia without publishing.
Coverting your experiments, findings to a paper is an important process.

Doing the project/code is one thing. Writing manuscripts targetting technical audience, non technical uadience is different
So other people can progress with your work

Research can give good results as well as bad results

Negative results:- someone else can prevent following the wrong method and save their time

Academic writing style is different skill we need to improve. Different than blog writing

use simple english,so other people can readable

Two main different streams/avernues: Conferences and Journals
quiet daunting. not easy

process, sometimes end up in diappointment-> paper get rejected

Conferences-tight deadlines, outcome-review, acceptance,rejected

Different review process
Conference chair distribute the papers among the reviewers

one blind process
Reviewer know who tha author are. Drawback:Decision might be biased depending on the institution

double b.p.
Reviewer does not know who submitted the paper. He knows other people who are reviewing the paper

triple. b.p.
reviewers does not know anything about authors as well as other reviewers

If sometimes some reviewers is not an expert in the specific field, a great work may not be understandable.
Then this great work can be rejected. He has experienced this.

Usuarlly read by atleast three papers(good conference)
2/3 -> acceptance

A Start Conferences -> ICML , One rejection-> paper get rejected
Luck also affect.

Chair might interview if marls allocations have big differences. Ex:- one reviewer -3, other 8/9

Rebuttal periodSometimes reviewers give suggesion to authors to add more experiments or change the stuff. But there is a high chance not to change the marks a lot

Quality of the Conference
Based on acceptance rate (200/6000 very good)
what kind of contribution it is done to the field
A start conferences-> need much experiments
Quality of the paper, how tough is to accept a paper

A Star
A 
B
C

Big conferences have workshop papers:- they don't have rigid reviewing process. but they have double blind papers
Good starting point to publish in the first place.

better the conference rank-> better the publication

less than a specific number of pages

Journals:-

very similar to conference
one important difference- publication timeline
no timeline
experiments are much wider and broader

review process take more time and take some time to publish

straight out rejection from associate edditor if the research focus of the journal is different

two-three months

there is a middle between acceptance, rejections

acceptance
minor revision(grammer,language,methological changes)
major revision(change experiments, do more experiments)
rejection
Therefore journals are more flexible than conferences

There is a chance, afte r4 5 months you get a rejection
in conferences results come in 2 months

impact factor in journals

how many times a paper in journal is cited in average

higher the impact factor, higher the quality

Q1-Quality 01
Q2-Quality 02


Do the reviewers chack whether someone republish ?
send the paper to someone in the field
get a red flag if you try do something like that
reduce marks for the novelity


exact experiments, exact words
